# TinyTol readme

### Guide to the nodebooks:

 > FT_modelling: A notebook for exploring the use of Fourier Transforms to simulate the TinyTol optical system and the pupil, forms the basis of the FT_model.py script.

 > Lens_bayer: A notebook exploring the trade offs between the different focal lengths and apperture sizes of the TinyTol telescope, particularly how to return to a diffraction limited system given the different pixel spacings of the three colour channels in the bayer array filter, and its trade off with the corresponding FOV and apperture.

 > Mizar_photometry: A notebook designed as a test bed for generating accurate stellar spectra (using Pysynphot) for the two candidate science targets, the Zeta Ursae Majoris system (Mizar and Alcor) and the Pleiades (the Tauri system).

 > prop_testing: A notebook exploring the proper-python light propagation software used to simulate the TinyTol optical. Explores how to use the spectra generated by Pysynphot as an input into the proper software.

 > Spiral: A notebook exploring the different input parametrs to generate the ideal interefence fringes on the TinyTol pupil.

 > TinyTol_testing: A testbed notebook for combining the different parts of the different scripts to generate the desired outputs.

 > TinyTol: The main notebook that pulls together all the components used to fully simulate the Tinytol system observing the desired science targets.

 ### Guide to python scripts:

 > Bayer.py: A script containing the functions used to interpoate the generated images onto the bayer array of the detector

 > FT_model.py: A script containing the code used to model the optical system with Fourier Tranforms

 > get_wf.py: A script containg the functions to output the 'wavefront' complex array generated by the proper software. The output is used to feed the pupil into the Fourier Transform code.

 > spectrum_generator.py: A script containing the functions used to generate the spectral outputs of the science target system that is fe

 d into the different simulation software.